# ARSnova

ARSnova is a modern approach to Audience Response Systems (ARS). It is released
under the GPLv3 license and is offered as a Software as a Service free of
charge. Head over to [arsnova.eu](https://arsnova.eu/) to see it in action.

![ARSnova](src/site/resources/showcase.png)

ARSnova consists of two projects: the mobile client and the backend. This
repository contains the mobile client code. You will find the backend at
[thm-projects/arsnova-backend](https://github.com/thm-projects/arsnova-backend).
If you plan to work on the client you have to build both repositories - the
backend and the client.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-mobile.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-mobile)

## Getting Started

The most convenient way to get started developing ARSnova is by using our
[Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/) environment, found at
[thm-projects/arsnova-vagrant](https://github.com/thm-projects/arsnova-vagrant).
Use your IDE on your host machine to make changes to ARSnova, while the build
process is completely handled by the Vagrant box. You will not need to install
any development tools.

[arsnova-vagrant](https://github.com/thm-projects/arsnova-vagrant) sets up a
virtual machine for both development and production use. The basic usage is
`vagrant up`, which will start the development environment. If you wish to start
production as well, use `vagrant up production`.

Once any machine has been started, all required ARSnova repositories are
automatically cloned from GitHub, so that you can start coding immediately.

To connect to your development machine, type `vagrant ssh`. After that, you can
start ARSnova inside the machine by running `./start.sh`. You can then access
ARSnova from your host machine by opening http://localhost:8080.

### QA Private Build

[arsnova-vagrant](https://github.com/thm-projects/arsnova-vagrant) also sets up
the build environment we use internally at THM, which consists of
[Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org/) and [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/).
The former provides a QA pipeline that builds, tests, analyzes, and finally
deploys ARSnova to the production environment. SonarQube is used for the
analyzation phase and provides a drill-down into many quality aspects, including
[technical debt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_debt).

While the development environment is running, Jenkins and SonarQube are
available at:

- http://localhost:9000 (SonarQube)
- http://localhost:9090 (Jenkins)

### QA Public Build

We also leverage the cloud provided by [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/) and
[Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com/) to build and test ARSnova. Travis first
builds and unit tests the software, then it instructs Sauce Labs to run smoke
tests on different browsers and operating systems. This ensures that the basic
features of ARSnova work across browsers and platforms. See
[this example](https://saucelabs.com/tests/4beecf8c754f418da0b75259c039c077) to
get an idea.

Our official build status provided by Travis CI:

- [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-backend.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-backend)
  for ARSnova Backend
- [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-mobile.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-mobile)
  for ARSnova Mobile

## Development

This is the mobile client repository. The following chapters will guide you
through the installation, as well as the utilization of all requirements you
need to build and use the mobile client of ARSnova. Before you start, please
ensure that the server part has been arranged completely.

### Requirements

The mobile client uses Sencha Touch 2 as application framework. In order to work
with the client you have to install Sencha Cmd 4 (version 5 is currently not
compatible with ARSnova). The basic requirement for installing and using Sencha
Cmd is the presence of Ruby and Java Runtime Environment 1.7 (or newer).
Additionally, you need [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) to build the frontend which
runs on top of NodeJS. Before you continue, please ensure that all requirements
are installed properly.

The download links to the referred requirements, as well as the installation
guide for Sencha Cmd can be found here:

- [Download Sencha Cmd](http://www.sencha.com/products/sencha-cmd/)
- [Sencha Cmd documentation](http://docs.sencha.com/cmd/5.x/intro_to_cmd.html)
  (see subsection "System Setup")

### Building

ARSnova consists of two main projects: ARSnova Mobile (this repository) and
ARSnova Backend. You have to build both projects separately, in order to work
with the mobile client. If you need information regarding the installation of
ARSnova Backend, please look up the read me at
[thm-projects/arsnova-backend](https://github.com/thm-projects/arsnova-backend).

ARSnova Mobile is built by the Grunt task runner. When building the frontend for
the first time, you need to install the build dependencies via NPM:

	npm install -g grunt-cli
	cd /path/to/arsnova-mobile
	npm install

Afterwards, you can create a web archive for a servlet container by running:

	grunt package

This creates the archive `arsnova-mobile.war` in the `target` directory.

#### Continuous Build

The command above builds the software in such a way that it can be put into
production immediately. However, this is not the best way to develop a feature
or to fix a bug. Instead, we provide several fine-grained build commands, based
on Sencha Cmd.

Before you call any build command, you have to refresh your Sencha Cmd project:

	cd /path/to/arsnova-mobile
	grunt refresh

After that you can use the following command to build the mobile client for
production deployment:

	cd /path/to/arsnova-mobile
	grunt build

To ensure quality of the code, JSCS and JSHint are used. You can run both of
them via `grunt lint` or run the tools separately via `grunt jscs` and
`grunt jshint`. By just calling `grunt` the code checks are performed before a
build.

In order to develop and test on your local machine, you additionally need to run
the ARSnova backend. You can use Jetty to start it:

	cd /path/to/arsnova-backend
	mvn jetty:run

If you do not want to manually rebuild the client after every change, you can
use Sencha Cmd's watching feature. Then ARSnova will be built continuously. To
do so you have to open a second terminal and execute the following command:

	cd /path/to/arsnova-mobile
	grunt run

`grunt run` will automatically inform you about code issues detected by JSCS and
JSHint in files you modify.

#### Build Environments

For `production`, all JavaScript and CSS files are minified and put into the
browser's cache. This is good to make your changes ready for production, but you
might want to have a faster build including proper stack traces while you are
still coding your feature. This is where the `testing` environment comes in.

By default, the `production` environment is used for `grunt build` while the
`testing` environment is used for `grunt run`. You can change this behavior by
appending `:<environment>` to the task name where `<environment>` can be one of
Sencha's environments or one of the shortcuts `prod` and `dev`.

## Credits

ARSnova is powered by Technische Hochschule Mittelhessen - University of Applied
Sciences. 
